A business (also known as an enterprise, a company, or a firm) is an organizational entity and legal entity made up of an association of people, be they natural, legal, or a mixture of both who share a common purpose and unite in order to focus their various talents and organize their collectively available skills or resources to achieve specific declared goals and are involved in the provision of goods and services to consumers.[1][2] A business can also be described as an organisation that provides goods and services for human needs.

A company or association of persons can be created at law as legal person so that the company in itself can accept limited liability for civil responsibility and taxation incurred as members perform (or fail) to discharge their duty within the publicly declared "birth certificate" or published policy.

Because companies are legal persons, they also may associate and register themselves as companies – often known as a corporate group. When the company closes it may need a "death certificate" to avoid further legal obligations.

Businesses serve as conductors of economic activity, and are prevalent in capitalist economies, where most of them are privately owned and provide goods and services allocated through a market to consumers and customers in exchange for other goods, services, money, or other forms of exchange that hold intrinsic economic value.

Businesses may also be social nonprofit enterprises or state-owned public enterprises operated by governments with specific social and economic objectives.

A business owned by multiple private individuals may form as an incorporated company or jointly organized as a partnership. Countries have different laws that may ascribe different rights to the various business entities.

The word "business" can refer to a particular organization or to an entire market sector (for example, "the finance business" is "the financial sector") or to all economic sectors collectively ("the business sector"). Compound forms such as "agribusiness" represent subsets of the concept's broader meaning, which encompasses all activity by suppliers of goods and services.

Typically private-sector businesses aim to maximize their profit, although in some contexts they may aim to maximize their sales revenue or their market share. Government-run businesses may aim to maximize some measure of social welfare.

Etymology:
The English word company has its origins in the Old French military term campaign (first recorded in 1150), meaning a "body of soldiers",[3] and originally from the Late Latin word companio "companion, one who eats bread [pane] with you", first attested in the Lex Salica as a calque of the Germanic expression *gahlaibo (literally, "with bread"), related to Old High German galeipo "companion" and Gothic gahlaiba "messmate". By 1303, the word referred to trade guilds. Usage of company to mean "business association" was first recorded in 1553,[citation needed] and the abbreviation "co." dates from 1769.

The Old English signs (Northumbrian) "care, anxiety, occupation," from being "careful, anxious, busy, occupied, diligent" (see busy (adj.)) + -ness. Middle English sense of "state of being much occupied or engaged" (mid-14c.) is obsolete, replaced by busyness.

The sense of "a person's work, occupation" is first recorded late 14c. (in late Old English big (adj.) appears as a noun in the sense "occupation, state of employment"). Meaning "what one is about at the moment" is from the 1590s. The sense of "trade, commercial engagements" is first attested 1727.